
## Project Description
This project aims to help the startup called Sparkify to build the data pipeline for the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. I apply the data modeling techinique to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis.

I first define fact and dimension tables for a star schema, and then write an ETL pipeline that transfers data from files in two local directories into these tables in Postgres using Python and SQL.

## Project Databases
There are two main datasets used in this project. 
- The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song.
- The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above.

## Prerequisites

```
install python
install jupyternotebook
install postgres
```
## Files in the repository

```
sql_queries.py
```
- Contains all the sql queries.

```
create_tables.py
```
- For drops and creates the tables. Run this file to reset the tables before each time run the ETL scripts.
```
test.ipynb.
```
- Displays the first few rows of each table to check the database.

```
etl.ipynb
```
- Reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into the tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.

```
etl.py
```
- Reads and processes all the files from song_data and log_data and loads them into the tables.

```
README.md
```
- Provides summary and instructions on your project.

## How to Run

1. Run create_tables.py to create the databases and tables
2. Run etl.py to process the entire datasets.
3. Run test.ipynb to confirm your records were successfully inserted into each table.

## Schema for the Data Pipeline
I create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

#####  Fact Table
- songplays: songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent.

##### Dimension Tables
- users: user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level.
- songs: song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration.
- artists:artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude.
- time:start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday
